Maintenance of the run time libraries for the Encore compiler is somewhat
more complicated than other Zilog compilers because of the horde of ZiLOG
extensions of the standard C runtime library to add space qualifiers "near", 
"far", and "rom" to the parameters.  This note is to give an overview of how
the library is maintained and point to the key files.

How to build the library:

As with all ZiLOG compilers, the run time support libraries are build by the
dos command

        buildrtl

Building the Build Script

The build script, buildrtl.bat, calls the script buildlib.bat to actually
build each library. Buildlib expects certain parameters to be passed as
system variables:


  COMMON_C_SRC - file giving C source files common to all libs of given type
  SPECIFIC_C_SRC - file giving C source files specific to given library
  COMMON_ASM_SRC - List of ASM source files common to all libs of given type
  SPECIFIC_ASM_SRC - List of ASM source files specific to given library

  CC  -  The compiler to use
  ASM -  The assembler to use
  LIB -  The librarian to use
  CFLAGS - Compile flags common to all libs of a given type
  SPECIFIC_CFLAGS - Compile flags specific to a given library
  AFLAGS  - Assembler flags common to all libs of a given type
  SPECIFIC_AFLAGS - Assembler flags specific to a given library

The file lists for the crt and fp library are themselves built by running
the command

        ../../bin/make.exe -f buildrtl.mak

The reason for placing the lists of C source files into files, rather than 
passing the list as a system variable as with the assembler files, is that
on some WINDOWS systems the list of files exceeds the permitted length of a
command.

The reason for building these files with a makefile is to correctly generate
the required names for all the variants of a standard C function
required when we have separate versions with the parameters in near and far
memory, in rom, and in erom.  The list of files for the floating point library
is built in the same way for consistency.

It is intended that them make command be run out of a UNIX like environment as
provided by cygwin.

Building the Source Files

All source files for the Run Time Library are in the directory "common".

The C source for functions such as strcmp(), which has variants n_n_strcmp(),
n_f_strcmp(), n_r_strcmp(), and so forth (17 in all), are built from template
files such as common/STRCMP.TPL by running the commands

        cd common
        ../../../bin/make.exe -f makeCfiles.mak 

The makefile basically passes the names of the target and template files, and 
a list of prefixes and qualifiers to insert, to the script common/makeCfile.bsh.
Again, this makefile is intended to run in a UNIX like environment.

THE ENCORE RTL: COMPONENT LIBRARIES & CPU DEPENDENCE

For the Encore, maintaining the RTL is further complicated by the vast array
of different CPU families.  These affect the several different "families" of 
libraries that make up the RTL in different ways.  The details of this
knowledge had been lost and had to be somewhat painfully reverse-engineered
when preparing for the Encore 5.2.0 release which is to support the new
Z8F6482 CPU family.  The information below is added to make all this less
mysterious in future, especially if more CPU families are added again.  A
main practical goal here is to answer the question, "What are the differences
among the existing CPU families that made it necessary to build different
library versions, so we can decide if a further division must be made to
support a newly designed CPU family?"

There are 7 "families" of libraries that compose the Encore RTL.  I call
these families because we provide multiple versions of each of the 7 
libraries in our distribution to users.  The different versions of these
libraries are needed so that they can be linked to a user's application
with compatible build settings, etc., so the linked application will
work correctly.  The IDE automatically takes care of selecting the 
correct version of each library that's needed in a user's build, based on the
user's project settings.  I don't include the ZSL, which has its own
dependencies, among the libraries I'm discussing here.

The 7 families of libraries in the RTL, with the number of variants that are
supplied in the Encore 5.4.0 distribution, are as follows:

* pchelp  --	 2 variants
* chelp   --	 4 variants
* fpdumy  --	 4 variants
* startup --	17 variants (.obj, not .lib); all new names in 5.4.0, see below
* fp      --	24 variants
* crt	  --	40 variants
* csio	  -- 	72 variants!

Most of the differences among the variants of a given family are due to 
differences in the build settings with which the variant was built.  For
some settings, the setting used to build the library needs to be the
same as the setting used to build the user's application, so that the
object files will be compatible.  Thus, there can be differences between
debug and non-debug versions; small and large model; static and dynamic
frames; "fastcall" (i.e. parameters passed in registers vs. on the
stack).  These differences are easy to understand.  But in some of the
library families, there are also distinctions made on the basis of CPU
family, which are not so straightforward to understand.  Until now, the
reasons for the differing dependencies of the libraries on CPU families
have not been documented.

The CPU family dependences of the 7 families are as follows.  The name 
used for each CPU grouping below is the string used to differentiate the
library variant name, such as the string 'f04a' in the library variant
crtf04asdfd.lib, except that this "chip substring" is left blank for the 
default group:

* pchelp, fpdumy: 		none
* chelp, fp:			default, revaa
* crt:					default, revaa, f04a
* csio:					default, revaa, f8pin, fmc, f1680
* startup:				F08X, F083X, F64XX, F1680, F6482

For future purposes, we don't need to worry much about the distinction
between default and revaa versions.  The revaa libraries support the
(by now, I think, long since obsolete) Rev AA silicon, which had 
several silicon errata for which we provided software workarounds. 
What's important is to understand the distinction between default
and non-default CPU groupings in the crt, csio, and startup families.

Based on research done by Roger Ball in July-August 2012, here are the
meanings of these CPU groupings:

* Note on the chelp family: As of the Encore 5.5.0 release which is
currently in preparation, the chelp family has now had to be split
into small and large model support, thus increasing the number of
variants from 4 to 8.  This is necessary to support the module
intrp.c being divided into 2 initializations of variable _intrp, to 
address CRs 13581 & 13522.

The crt family: In this context, 'f04a' is applied to 10 of the 12 
existing (prior to release 5.2.0) Encore CPU families, all of them
except the XP_64XX Series and the XP_F0822 Series.  The difference
between the default and f04a libraries is entirely in the flash
read and write algorithms which are given in the 2 source code files
flash.asm and flashf.asm.  In other words, the flash operations are
different between the default and 'f04a' CPU families.  For the new
F6482 family, its flash operation is (in these respects) identical to
most of the other Encore CPU families, and so the F6482 will join the
'f04a' grouping for this family of libraries.
Update with release 5.4.0: The new F3224 or FXX24 family (its
nomenclature is still somewhat in flux at the time of this writing)
is identical to the F6482 family in terms of flash operations.
Therefore, this new family will also be grouped with the 'f04a'
families.

The csio family: Aside from the revaa variants, the terms f8pin,
fmc, and f1680 are applied straightforwardly to those CPU families
that obviously map to those names.  The differences among these 
variants are all caused by conditionally-compiled code in the
function init_uart() in module csio.c.  These differences are due
to different UART SFRs, which are used by name in that function.
The relevant UART SFRs for the new F6482 family are the same as for
the F1680 family, so the F6482 will use the 'f1680' variants of the
csio family of libraries.
Update with release 5.4.0: the F3224 UART is identical to those
of the F6482 family, except that there is only 1 UART and so the
U0/U1 distinction is not part of its SFR names.  I have been
able to handle this with some name redefinitions in SIO.C.
Therefore, this new family will again be treated as one of the
'f1680' families for csio purposes.

The startup family: In release 5.40, a number of new startup 
modules have been added and the names of all have been changed.
It is hoped that the names will now be slightly more 
comprehensible to users.  

The differences among the 5 CPU 
groupings for the startup module have to do with: how many 
interrupt vectors are provided; whether EData is supported; 
whether PRAM is supported; whether Page E of RAM can be
present.  A further wrinkle is that for CPUs in the F6482 
family, separate versions must be built to support running
in the simulator because otherwise the startup code waits
for the FLLDONE condition.

The breakdown of the various CPU groupings for the startup
modules is as follows:

* F64xx (formerly "default")
	Applies to: 	 XP_64XX Series
	Vectors: 		 04 - 36
	EData support:	 yes
	PRAM support: 	 no
	Page E support:  yes (optional)
	
* F083X (formerly "f01a")
	Applies to:		 F0830 Series, F083A Series; 
						also, members of the F08X
						startup group that have no
						EData
	Vectors:		 04 - 3C
	EData support:   no
	PRAM support:	 no
	Page E support:  no
	
* F08X (formerly "f04a")
	Applies to:		 XP_8022 Series, 
					 XP_F082A Series, XP_F082A_8Pin Series,
					 XP_F0823 Series, XP_F0823_8Pin Series,
					 FMC16100 Series, ZMOTION Series,
                     ZMOTION_8Pin Series
	Vectors:		 04 - 3C
	EData support:	 yes
	PRAM support:	 no
	Page E support:  no
	
* F1680
	Applies to:		 XP_F1680_8K Series, XP_F1680_16K Series,
					 XP_F1680_24K Series
	Vectors:		 04 - 3C
	EData support:	 yes
	PRAM support:	 yes
	Page E support:  no
	
* F6482 (added in 5.2.0)
	Applies to:		 XP_F6482 Series, F3224_Series
	Vectors:		 04 - 4A
	EData support:	 yes
	PRAM support:	 no
	Page E support:  yes (optional)
	
THE ENCORE ZSL: BUILD DEPENDENCIES

A few words on the Encore ZSL are also in order.  The ZSL ("Zilog Standard 
Library") is not part of the RTL, but rather a library of peripheral support
code from an older project (circa 2004) that never really took off.  But like
the RTL component libraries, we offer a number of ZSL variants in our
distribution.  It's worth briefly explaining these variants, which primarily
reflect different build options.

The Encore 5.4.0 release includes 80 ZSL variants that are pre-built in the
distribution provided to users.  These libraries have names of the form:

     zsl[1680|mc][u0|u1][L|S][T|Y][F][D].lib
	 
[1680]:  Means built for the F1680 family. 
[mc]  :  Means built for the Motor Control MCUs.
         If this part of the name is blank, built for the "normal" (non-
		 F1680, non-motor control) MCUs.
		
[u0|u1]: This option applies only to the F1680 family.  At a guess, it
         indicates whether to use UART0 or UART1.

[L|S] :  L => Large Memeory Model
         S => Small Memory Model
		
[T|Y] :  T => Static frames
         Y => Dynamic frames

[F] :    Fastcall, i.e., function parameters passed in registers.
         If blank, no fastcall, i.e., parameters passed on the stack.
		
[D] :    Debug version
         If blank, non-debug version.

All of these are simply options for the build, which will allow the library to
be compatible with the user's application, except for the "mc" or Motor Control
designation and the "1680" designation which does the same for the F1680 MCU
family.  The Motor Control MCUs have a somewhat different set of
peripherals and SFRs than other families of Encore parts, and the ZSL source
code actually includes distinct C modules written to use those SFRs.  For
example, in the folder src\uart\common, you will find a module openuart0.c
and a counterpart openmcuart0.c which performs the same tasks for the Motor
Control parts.  The F1680 family, like the MC family, has its own distinct set 
of SFRs.

In the ZDS II distribution, there are also tools provided to the user with
which he can build still more ZSL variants.  Some of these support the F1680
MCU family, which like the MC family, has its own distinct set of SFRs.  The
user may also choose to place some of his Interrupt Service Routines in the
PRAM address space which the F1680 family supports, for better performance.
However, these F1680-specific libraries originally were not pre-built for the 
user and provided in the distribution as the MC libraries are.  In later
distributions, more of these have been added to the pre-built libraries.
